---
layout: post
title: Carnitas
category: mexican
tags: ["mexican", "pork"]
---
## Ingredients

* 1 3 1/2 to 4 pount boneless pork butt, fat cap trimmed to 1/8" thick, cut into 2 inch chunks
* 1 small onion peeled and halved
* 2 bay leaves
* 1 tsp dried oregano
* 1 tsp ground cumin
* table salt and ground pepper
* 2 cups water
* 2 tbsp juice from 1 lime
* 1 large orange, halved

## Steps

1. Adjust oven rack to lower middle and preheat oven to 300 degrees.
2. Combine the pork, onion, bay leaves, oregano, cumin, 1 tsp salt, 1/2 tsp pepper, water and lime juice in a large dutch oven.  The liquids should barely cover the meat.  Juice the orange into a medium bowl and remove the seeds to give you 1/3 cup juice.  Add the juice and orange halves to the pot.
3. Bring the mixture to a simmer over medium high heat, stirring occasionally.  Cover the pot and transfer to the oven.  Cook until the pork is soft and falls apart when prodded with a fork, about 2 hours, flipping the meat once during cooking.
4. Remove the pot from the oven and turn the oven to broil.  Using a slotted spoon transfer the pork to a bowl.  Remove the orange halves, onion and bay leaves from the cooking liquid and discard.  
5. Put the pot over high heat and and simmer until thick and syrupy, about 8 to 12 minutes.  A heat proof spatula should leave a wide trail when dragged thru the glaze.
6. Using two forks, pull each piece of pork in half.  Fold in the reduced liquid; season with salt and pepper to taste.  Spread the pork in an even layer over a rimmed baking sheet or a broiler pan.  Broil until browned (not charred) (5 to 8 minutes).  Flip the pieces and continue to broil (another 5 to 8 minutes).